So in the implementation, we can write a function
getMiddleNode by passing the head of the linked list
We need to declare the pointers slow and fast and
make both point to head of the linked list
And we need to check if the linked list is
empty
So write if head not equal to null, now we
need to traverse the list till fast reach the last node.
So write if fast not equal to null and fast
next not equal to null.
Here we are checking two conditions
The first condition is fast not equal to null
This condition makes sure that the fast pointer is not null
and the second condition is fast next not equal to null.
The reason why we are adding this condition is
inside the loop
We are going to increment the fast pointer by two
positions.
So before executing the loop we need to check whether
the next node is present or not.
If we don't put this condition the programme execution will
crash due to segmentation fault.
To understand this better, let us assume the fast pointer
is pointing to the last node of the linked list
So what will be fast next next? next of last node
will be null and one more next leads to
null next. Here
Null-Next is trying to access the unallocated memory
So our programme execution will crash due to segmentation fault
And since we are advancing the fast pointer by two
positions we are not only checking that node, but also
it's next node is available or not
So that's why we are giving this condition fast next
not equal to null
Now in each iteration, slow should move one
time and fast should move two times. So write slow
equal to slow next and fast equal to fast next next
and after this while loop exhuast, fast will
be pointing to end and slow will be pointing to
the middle node. And as we need the middle node
we can print slow data. And if the head is null,
that is if the linked list is empty we should return -1.